README.md, before:

# vocab-handling
Code for processing external vocabularies for Neurobagel

## Preparation

Before you can start extracting the terms we use from existing
vocabularies, you first have to obtain the vocabulary files.
The easiest way we have found so far to do this is to 

1. Make an account on https://athena.ohdsi.org/search-terms/start
2. Navigate to https://athena.ohdsi.org/vocabulary/list and select the vocabularies you want to download
   - In the download window, provide an alias for your selected vocab collection under "name bundle"
3. Unzip the downloaded files and place them in the `/data` directory here in this repo

The scripts in this repo will assume that you have already downloaded the vocabularies (e.g. SNOMED)
and placed them in the `/data` directory.

## Generating vocabulary term lists

Run one of the following `make` commands in the repo root, depending on whether you want to re-generate the `diagnosis` terms, `assessment` terms, or both (`all`):

```bash
make diagnosis

make assessments

make all
```

## To compare the old and new version of a vocabulary term list

1. Create the following subdirectories:
   ```bash
   mkdir vocab/old vocab/new
   ```
2. Copy your old and new vocabulary list .json file into the appropriate subdirectory.
3. Run:
   ```bash
   python src/compare_vocabs.py
   ```

Commit message:

add arg for specific terms to add

README.md, after:

# vocab-handling
Code for processing external vocabularies for Neurobagel

## Preparation

Before you can start extracting the terms we use from existing
vocabularies, you first have to obtain the vocabulary files.
The easiest way we have found so far to do this is to 

1. Make an account on https://athena.ohdsi.org/search-terms/start
2. Navigate to https://athena.ohdsi.org/vocabulary/list and select the vocabularies you want to download
   - In the download window, provide an alias for your selected vocab collection under "name bundle"
3. Unzip the downloaded files and place them in the `/data` directory here in this repo

The scripts in this repo will assume that you have already downloaded the vocabularies (e.g. SNOMED)
and placed them in the `/data` directory.

## Generating vocabulary term lists

Run one of the following `make` commands in the repo root, depending on whether you want to re-generate the `diagnosis` terms, `assessment` terms, or both (`all`):

```bash
make diagnosis

make assessments

make all
```

### If specific terms need to be added/included

You can run `generate_vocab.py` directly and pass the path to a TSV containing specific terms using the optional `--add-terms` argument, e.g.:

```bash
python generate_vocab.py --mode diagnosis --add-terms ./openneuro_diagnoses.tsv
```

(See `python generate_vocab.py --help` for TSV details)

## To compare the old and new version of a vocabulary term list

1. Create the following subdirectories:
   ```bash
   mkdir vocab/old vocab/new
   ```
2. Copy your old and new vocabulary list .json file into the appropriate subdirectory.
3. Run:
   ```bash
   python src/compare_vocabs.py
   ```
